hi guys welcome back to studio one with
me gregor
today we want to learn about the
difference between insert scent and
split effects which can be fairly useful
information particularly to beginners
and people new to mixing and production
so let's dive straight in so in order to
not confuse everything i'd say let's
just focus on one instrument track and
one instrument channel in this example
so that we can truly look at the key
differences between the insert send and
split effects approach with insert
effects that's the most straightforward
method that most of you are probably
aware of you just go for example to
study once browser you drag an effect
straight onto the insert chain that's an
insert effect affecting the entire
signal as a whole now if i would add a
pro eq after that this would affect both
the reverb that came before
as well as the original signal so
everything is traveling in a series in
this insert chain and that means that if
i for example
wanna low cut this reverb a bit
take out some of this strong
muddiness
then i would always also low cut
directly into the low end of this
instrument it's inevitable because it's
on the exact same channel and it's the
same process chain right
see now i cut directly into the cello
and yes the reverb is less muddy less
prominent but i also made a big
compromise there by cutting into the
integrity of the frequency spectrum
of the instrument
an alternative approach to that are send
effects
and they took me quite a while to get
because i feel they aren't very well
explained most of the time
send effect means you take the original
signal like almost sort of with a y
cable
and you split it in half or you
duplicate it essentially
one of the outputs is still going to the
original output but now you have another
one to your disposal that you could
route into a different channel where the
effect is applied that allows you to
process just the effect portion of the
sound differently from the original
sound let's take a look in studio one
it's actually super easy to send insert
effects onto a different channel instead
to do that just take for example the
room reverb here and move it from the
insert onto the sense portion of your
channel and studio one will
automatically create a brand new channel
for you where that insert effect is
applied isn't that cool in most other
dws that i used over the years what i
always had to do was to first create
this channel and then apply the room
reverb not in studio one we can just
drag and drop you can also drag and drop
directly here from the browser onto the
sense portion and get the same result
it's incredible now let's listen to the
difference between room reverb on the
insert versus room reverb on the inside
of a different channel because i think
the difference can be quite striking
even in such a simple example so we
moved the room reverb to the sense
portion now we get our own dedicated
channel for it now we can remove the
insert effect from the original channel
by holding down command on a mac or
control on the windows pc and then just
dragging upward and away this is how you
would remove a channel now we can just
move the pro eq can hold down option
on a mac it would be alt on windows
and then it will
move instead of copy
and now you can see
we have
a send
this essentially determines how much
level of the original we're sending to a
brand new channel and on this brand new
channel we are now going to apply the
room reverb and the equalizer the pro eq
instead of applying them directly onto
the original instrument and this eq will
now naturally just cut into the reverb
because the original signal is no longer
affected by the eq there's no eq applied
here
and that would sound like this
let me just make the reverb a bit louder
now we also get a dedicated level
control for the reverb which we didn't
have before either
[Music]
and you can hear
[Applause]
in this extreme example
the original cello still has all of its
low end but the reverb is severely low
cut and this kind of independent
processing is only possible with sound
effects or is it well that might be true
for most daws but at studio one we have
one more really exciting way to process
any channel and that is the splitter
you're gonna find the splitter if you go
to the effects tab and then go to the
splitter tool right here you can insert
that by dragging and dropping it onto
any channel
and this does kind of the same thing
that we already looked at with the y
cable but within the same channel so
instead of sending to a completely
different channel that we then process
with effects we split within the same
channel keeping everything nice and tidy
and we can split in a variety of
different ways we can do a normal split
this just splits the original signal in
half and then we can apply different
effects on each that's great for example
for parallel compression so if i add say
a compressor on this part of the signal
then i could mix the best of both worlds
together i get this original sound
that's unprocessed and dynamic with the
really over compressed over emphasized
but also very exciting articulation that
the compressor provides and this would
be a great way to do parallel
compression but all within one channel
keeping everything nice and tidy in the
mixer console otherwise you would have
to have several channels to achieve this
but there's even more ways we can split
we can also do a channel split which
basically splits the signal into the
left and the right channel and then you
can process each of these differently
and there's even a frequency split which
essentially turns all of your plugins
into multiband plugins which is
absolutely incredible but this would
lead a bit too far in this video i
really just wanted to give you an
overview of the send insert and split
effect options that you have in studio
one if you want to learn more about the
splitter we have a dedicated video about
that that i'm going to link in one of
the video corners here or in the video
description and with that thank you for
watching